# Asteroid-Diameter-Prediction

In this project, machine learning algorithm has been used to predict the diameter of an asteroid. Various regression algorithms have been implanted for the prediction and a comparison has been done among them. Support Vector Regressor, Decision Tree Regressor, Random Forest Regressor and XGBoosting Regressor have been implemented and compared. Regression metrics such as coefficient of determination(R2), root means squared error(RMSE) have been used to compare the performance of the regression algorithms. Principal component analysis is used for dimensionality reduction and the performance is compared to the original dataset. The dataset used to develop the algorithms is maintained by NASA jet propulsion laboratory.
Asteroids are small rocky entity that orbits the sun. They are rocky fragments left over from the formation of the solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. They are of various size, however, they are not as big as a planet. Most of asteroids in our solar system are present in the asteroid belt. There are also some asteroids that are found in the orbital path of planets. This means that the asteroid and the planet follow the same path around the sun. Earth and a few other planets have asteroids like this. However, all asteroids are not same. Because asteroids formed in different locations at different distances from the sun, no two asteroids are alike. Most asteroids are made of different kinds of rocks, but some have clays or metals, such as nickel and iron. Some asteroids are hundreds of miles in diameter, but many more are as small as pebbles. They range in size from Vesta – the largest at about 329 miles (530 kilometres) in diameter – to bodies that are less than 33 feet (10 meters) across. Also, asteroids aren’t all round like planets. They have jagged and irregular shapes.
Machine Learning algorithms can be used in prediction of diameter of asteroid efficiently. The risk of collision of an asteroid with earth makes it important to predict the diameter of it. The early prediction of a diameter helps in taking necessary actions in order to avoid disaster in case of a hazardous asteroid. Use of machine learning can provide accurate prediction to the problem of prediction of diameter of asteroid.

Link to the dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/basu369victor/prediction-of-asteroid-diameter
